8 FAM 801.2-1 Introduction

(CT:CITZ-132; 08-07-2025)

a. The purpose of this subchapter is to provide guidance regarding the use of information request letters (IRLs) and information notices (INs).

b. IRLs are personalized, standardized letters with a date and signature block that request from the applicant additional information, documentation, or action needed to process the passport application. You must fully adjudicate the application prior to suspending to ensure that you are addressing all issues. The IRLs have been carefully crafted to communicate clearly and accurately statutory, regulatory, and other requirements of the Department.

(1) Passport agencies/centers must not make unilateral changes or alterations to the IRLs without the approval of the Office of Adjudication (CA/PPT/S/A) except on a case-by-case basis with the approval of passport agency/center management in extenuating circumstances, e.g., when you request that the applicant submit a birth certificate instead of a notification of birth registration, and the applicant insists that the notification of birth registration is the birth certificate; and

(2) Posts must use the cleared language in the IRLs, but are authorized to modify the language to suit local logistical requirements and other local concerns such as available documentation.

NOTE : IRLs are not adjudicative guidance. The passport application must be adjudicated in accordance with the 8 FAM and then the appropriate IRL selected to address any deficiencies with the passport or Consular Report of Birth Abroad (CRBA)

c. INs are standardized notices that provide passport bearers with information about their passports. For example, an IN may be included to explain why the passport was limited in validity, and/or what documentation is needed to obtain a fully valid passport. The INs have been carefully crafted to communicate this information clearly and accurately. Consequently, no changes or alterations to the INs may be made unilaterally at passport agencies/centers without the approval of CA/PPT/S/A except in extenuating circumstances on a case-by-case basis with the approval of passport agency/center management, e.g., when using an endorsement 46 to limit a passport for a special problem. INs do not require a response from the applicant and do not need to be personalized with the applicant's name and address.

d. Posts may consult Passport Services’ IRL index and IN Index or contact AskPPTAdjudication@state.gov when tailoring correspondence to a situation.