
venting B cell-00
q1 unknown The supplied material does not mention de-minimis releases or good-faith recovery compliance routes, so it is unknown whether such releases violate the venting prohibition. UNCERTAINTY ['Whether de-minimis releases during good-faith recovery are exempted or covered under the prohibition.']
q2 unknown The provided material does not address de-minimis exemptions or whether good faith alone qualifies a non-exempt refrigerant release for such an exemption. UNCERTAINTY ['Whether a de-minimis exemption exists and what role good faith plays in qualifying for it.']
q3 unknown The supplied text does not discuss a de-minimis venting exemption, independent servicing practices, or certified-equipment duties. UNCERTAINTY ['Whether a de-minimis exemption waives servicing practices or equipment certification duties.']
q4 yes It regulates any person maintaining, servicing, repairing, or disposing of an appliance or industrial process refrigeration, prohibiting them from knowingly venting or otherwise releasing into the environment any refrigerant from such appliances (unless exempt as a specific substitute in a specific end-use). UNCERTAINTY []

venting A cell-01
q1 no No. The supplied material does not establish that every knowing release during maintenance violates the prohibition, nor does it address de-minimis releases during good-faith recovery or compliance routes. The statement only sets forth a general prohibition against knowingly venting or releasing refrigerant, subject to an exemption for specific substitutes in specific end-uses, and may omit qualifications. UNCERTAINTY ['Whether de-minimis releases during good-faith recovery are exempt under omitted qualifications, as the supplied material is silent regarding de-minimis releases.']
q2 unknown Unknown. The supplied material does not mention good faith, non-exempt refrigerants, or the criteria required to qualify for a de-minimis exemption. UNCERTAINTY ['Whether good faith alone suffices for a de-minimis exemption, as de-minimis exemptions are entirely absent from the supplied text.']
q3 unknown Unknown. The supplied material contains no reference to a de-minimis venting exemption, independent servicing practices, or certified-equipment duties. UNCERTAINTY ['Whether a de-minimis exemption impacts or waives servicing practices or equipment certification requirements.']
q4 yes The prohibition regulates any person maintaining, servicing, repairing, or disposing of an appliance or industrial process refrigeration. The prohibited conduct is knowingly venting or otherwise releasing into the environment any refrigerant from such appliances, subject to the exemption for specific substitutes in specific end-uses. UNCERTAINTY []

label-scope A cell-02
q1 unknown The material states that seats manufactured to U.S. standards between January 1, 1981, and February 25, 1985, must bear a specified label, but it does not specify whether this applies generally to all manufacturing or only within a specific regulatory context such as aircraft use. UNCERTAINTY ['Whether the requirement applies universally to manufacturing or is an excerpt from a narrower operational rule.']
q2 unknown The supplied provision makes no mention of aircraft, occupancy, or conditions for aircraft use, so it is not possible to determine from the text whether the labeling rule serves as an aircraft occupancy condition. UNCERTAINTY ['The broader regulatory context and purpose of the labeling provision are absent from the provided text.']
q3 no The statement uses passive phrasing ('must bear the label') and does not identify the manufacturer or any specific person as the actor legally required to perform the labeling action. UNCERTAINTY []
q4 no The material does not establish terms of use or state that meeting this labeling rule permits use without any other conditions; it only specifies that qualifying seats must bear the label. UNCERTAINTY []

label-scope B cell-03
q1 no The material does not establish a general manufacturing mandate for all U.S.-standard seats regardless of context. Instead, S000–S002 frame the labeling requirement as a conditional rule ('provided that') for occupying an approved child restraint system furnished by an operator or designated persons. UNCERTAINTY []
q2 unknown S000–S002 indicate that the label rule is a condition to 'occupy an approved child restraint system furnished by the operator', but the supplied text never mentions an aircraft. Without importing external facts about the regulation, it cannot be confirmed whether the occupancy takes place in an aircraft. UNCERTAINTY ["Whether the vehicle or operational setting governed by the operator and chapter is an aircraft, as the word 'aircraft' does not appear in the text."]
q3 no S002 dictates that seats 'must bear the label', but the supplied text specifies only the condition that the seat bears the label, without identifying the manufacturer as the actor legally obligated to perform the labeling action. UNCERTAINTY []
q4 no The material does not permit use based solely on meeting this label rule. S000 and S001 introduce other prerequisites and cross-references, including that the restraint be furnished by the operator or certain persons, and note potential exceptions under paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(B)(4). UNCERTAINTY []

child-ambiguity B cell-04
q1 yes Under the supplied text, the operator is responsible, and the restraint system must be properly secured to an approved forward-facing seat or berth. UNCERTAINTY []
q2 no No, the securing requirement applies specifically to occupying an approved child restraint system in aircraft under 14 CFR § 91.107(a)(3)(iii), not to child restraints in any setting outside aircraft. UNCERTAINTY []
q3 unknown Unknown. The provided text addresses 14 CFR § 91.107 and requirements of this chapter, but does not provide information to determine whether this requirement applies to Part 135 operations. UNCERTAINTY ['The supplied text does not discuss Part 135 operations or establish their relationship to § 91.107.']
q4 no No, the phrase 'Notwithstanding any other requirement of this chapter' is expressly qualified by 'provided that', requiring compliance with the subsequent conditions including operator requirements. UNCERTAINTY []

child-ambiguity A cell-05
q1 yes The operator is responsible for ensuring the restraint system is properly secured, and it must be secured to an approved forward-facing seat or berth when a child occupies an approved child restraint system under 14 CFR § 91.107(a)(3)(iii). UNCERTAINTY []
q2 no No. The requirement specifically applies when a child occupies an approved child restraint system under 14 CFR § 91.107(a)(3)(iii), not whenever any child restraint exists anywhere or outside aircraft. UNCERTAINTY []
q3 no No. The supplied material references only 14 CFR § 91.107(a)(3)(iii) and does not mention or settle applicability to operations under Part 135. UNCERTAINTY []
q4 unknown The supplied material does not mention the phrase 'notwithstanding any other requirement' or address whether conditions of child-restraint permissions may be ignored. UNCERTAINTY ["The phrase 'notwithstanding any other requirement' and its legal effect are absent from the provided text."]

constructed-parent A cell-06
q1 no Visitors are permitted to use the public waiting room whether or not they have a laboratory permit, meaning a permit is not required. UNCERTAINTY []
q2 unknown The supplied material does not mention a laboratory entry log or any requirement to sign one to use the public waiting room. UNCERTAINTY ['Whether any log-signing requirement exists for visitors using the public waiting room.']
q3 unknown The statement only addresses visitor permission to use the public waiting room and is silent on whether entry into the laboratory itself is authorized without a permit. UNCERTAINTY ['Whether waiting-room permission extends to authorizing laboratory entry without a permit.']
q4 no The supplied material contains no information regarding the waiting room's hours of operation or whether it closes at 18:00. UNCERTAINTY []

constructed-parent B cell-07
q1 no Visitors do not need to obtain a laboratory permit to use the public waiting room, as the material expressly permits them to use it whether or not they have a permit. UNCERTAINTY []
q2 no Signing the laboratory entry log is a requirement imposed on staff, and visitor waiting-room permission is explicitly independent of staff entry conditions. UNCERTAINTY []
q3 no The permission applies solely to using the public waiting room and does not authorize entry into the laboratory. UNCERTAINTY []
q4 yes The supplied text directly establishes that the waiting room closes at 18:00. UNCERTAINTY []

TOKENS {"A": {"candidates_token_count": 1367, "prompt_token_count": 1107, "thoughts_token_count": 12478, "total_token_count": 14952}, "B": {"candidates_token_count": 1522, "prompt_token_count": 2536, "thoughts_token_count": 7706, "total_token_count": 11764}}
